# Team and Project History

In an effort to move the Web3 space further in its accountability and sustainability efforts, the team at OpenBook is fully doxxed. Too many projects are founded and marketed with zero responsibility for the project placed on the people behind them, and this leads to the Wild West type landscape that we see on the front-lines of technology mainstream adoption attempts. We see this especially prevalently in the NFT market at the time of writing this whitepaper. The distrust and fear this creates drives away people who could otherwise greatly benefit from exploring these new limits of technology and digital ownership. So, in service of furthering these ideals in a tenable and productive way, we present the team behind OpenBook!

The OpenBook sportsbook protocol idea was created by three software developers who met as students at University of Nevada, Las Vegas (UNLV) in a graduate-level blockchain fundamentals course. The goal was to build a project using the blockchain to solve a problem that the world faces today. In the end, the problem they chose to tackle was by coincidence alone thematically fitting with their campus’ host city; a decentralized sportsbook shipped out by university students who met in Las Vegas.

The three developers, June Liang, Daniel Nieland, and Daniel Sapkota, teamed up to work on a project that utilized the blockchain. At the beginning, the founders wanted to come up with an idea that innovated in an area that was currently underutilizing the blockchain and Web3 technologies. Out of the ideas compiled, a unanimous consensus was reached that a decentralized sportsbook would be the most exciting, innovative, and achievable project to tackle. After deciding on the topic, the team dove head first into organizing, researching, and planning what would become the OpenBook sportsbook protocol. Now let’s meet the three developers behind OpenBook:

Junyan “June” Liang is a Master’s student at UNLV on track to graduate in Fall 2022. He has spent considerable time honing his front-end web development skills and loves working with animations, user interface design and web security related areas. Recently, June has dipped his toes into Web3 and blockchain technologies, leading him to join the university course where the team met for the first time.

Daniel Nieland graduates in May 2022 from UNLV with his B.S in Computer Science. His passion for the blockchain, crypto, and the Web3 space bloomed and quickly thereafter exploded in mid- to late 2021. While he dove into the Web3 landscape “a bit late” by his personal assessment, Nieland remains confident that the future lies with the “technologies and fundamental values behind the Web3 movement” and plans to continue his involvement and development on the Web3 frontier.

Due to regulatory and monetary constraints in his native country, Daniel Sapkota started his Internet journey by mining a few bucks in bitcoin and using it to bet on sports to climb the Internet ladder. Today he is a Ph.D. student researching blockchain and is actively involved in DAOs providing analytical, Web3, and protocol level directional contributions. For Sapkota, “prediction markets still hold a special place in my heart, as \[they] enabled me to reach here today.”
